<h1>Overview</h1>

This application extracts integer frequency vs amplitude data of audible frequencies from audio files and allows for the graphing of said data. Once labeled, this data is used to train a musical key signatue identification model. Baseline data files, as well as scripts to simplify data collection and labeling, are included, allowing one to retrain or fine-tune the model however they wish.


<h1>Methods</h1>

The CMake C++ project uses the FFmpeg Library as well as the Fast Fourier Transform as implemented by FFTW to extract frequency data from .wav files. The C# visualizer program uses ScottPlot to graph this data. A multiclass linear SVM model is trained using scikit-learn with the data generated by the C++ analyzer once it has been labeled. A Windows batch script is included which allows for bulk data collection and processing. It prompts the user to download from a YouTube playlist using yt-dlp, formats the data to be properly processed by the analyzer using ffmpeg, and then runs the analyzer to extract the frequency data to a subdirectory in training_set/data. A text file is generated indicating which data file corresponds to which track from the playlist. This allows for easy compartmenalization of data sets, and thereby increased freedom in fine-tuning the model and adding additonal training examples.


<dh1>Installation</h1>

If one only seeks to extract frequency vs. amplitude information and/or graph it, they can simply download the Release directory and run the appropriate executable. To use and/or modify the key identification model, clone the entire repository and ensure that yt-dlp and ffmpeg are installed. Then, use the provided sk-learn virtual environment to train the model. Run the CreateData.bat script in the Release directory to gather additional data, and then label the outputted data in the appropraite training_set/data directory. Note that formatted audio files remain in training_set/audio/formatted for convenience alongside the appropriate pairings file in training_set/audio even though raw audio is deleted from the training_set/audio/raw directory after the script finishes execution. If an external error causes a file to fail to download and results in Analyzer aborting execution during the CreateData.bat script, simply renumber the files in the appropriate training_set/audio/formatted directory and run Analyzer with said directory and the incomplete training_set/data subdirectory as arguments to generate the expected data.
